# Rationale

Tagbilaran City is currently experiencing high traffic load during rush hours thus we need a sufficient traffic control system that will keep the vehicles flowing. We want to prototype a capable system that will only know if a one way street is experiencing high, moderate or low traffic. If the prototype will show accurate results we want to gradually scale the system to accommodate the most busiest roads in the city. We also want to accumulate data for further studies relating to traffic management. We will apply fuzzy logic algorithm to solve this problem because of its nature to accept small uncertain inputs and process this inputs to make reliable results that will eventually solve our traffic issues in the city. Another reason for this study is our fascination about computer vision. The large community on computer vision will aid us in our prototyping phase. The research team is also new on computer vision and fuzzy logic concepts and wants to improve on these domains for future ventures. Some challenges and limitations of the proposed system is accident handling and recognition. The system itself performing the detection process on one video source consumes 90 percent of processing resources, imagine the computing requirements if the system has to detect 10 simultaneous video sources with multiple objects to detect in one video source. The video source will capture any objects in sight with out any classification regardless if it is a vehicle or not since we are using background subtraction as our motion detection technique. The importance of our study will help the city government in their problem about traffic management and continue to provide traffic data to perform decisions regarding the future of traffic management in Tagbilaran city.